---
title: about morethanseven
---

h1. About This Site

Morethanseven is the blog of Gareth Rushgrove, a web developer, programmer and occasional sysadmin living in Cambridge and working in London.

h2. Collophon

This site is now tied together with pieces of string and the following bits of technology:

* Nanoc3 - lovely static site compiler in Ruby
* "Nanoc3_blog":http://github.com/mgutz/nanoc3_blog - sample blog for nanoc, also provides the rather nice theme
* Coderay - for the pretty syntax highlighting
* HAML - because nanoc3_blog uses it and I'm at least willing to give it a go
* Textile - friendly text to html processing using the RedCloth Ruby gem
* Less - nice CSS preprocessing
* "Tumblr":http://tumblr.com - used as a content management system, mainly because of the API and mobile clients
* Ruby-Tumblr - for creating nanoc items from tumblr posts
* Nginx - small, fast web server
* Git - for versioning everything

I wanted a blog that was easy to manage for me, easy to serve, low on server resources and fast. Bonus points if I got to play with something interesting along the way. You can't get much faster than static files and Nanoc seems a good balance of features and extensibility. Nanoc_blog provided a good starting point for much of what you see here. I've hacked on it to use things like coderay, less and textile by default. For adding new content I can use vim if I'm at my (or any) computer and if I'm out and about or feeling fancy I can use Tumblr or even GitHub.

