---
created_at: 2005/09/27}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Are kids being taught web standards? II"
---

<p>Disclaimer: I went to uni but not to study anything even remotely to do with the web. I basically make everything up as I go along. Bear that in mind when reading my commentry.</p>


 <p>Phil (<a href="http://xlab.co.uk">xlab.co.uk</a>) just made an observation regarding webstandards and education that I thought particularly interesting. Are kids being taught web standards?</p>


 <p>Based on my experience, limited as it may be, I&#8217;d have to vote no. I&#8217;d maybe even go further &#8211; are kids (sorry to any young readers, I&#8217;m just going with the flow) being taught web design?</p>


 <p>Web design, at least to my mind, involves a wide range of disciplines &#8211; Human Computer Interaction, Information design and theory, Graphic design, Application design and development and so on and so forth. Without a general appreciation of all of these you are not, again to my thinking, a web designer. That isn&#8217;t to say you aren&#8217;t a fantastic Graphic Designer or what not, but a web designer is simply a broader disciple.</p>


 <p>Back to education. And teaching. Now to teach such a rapidly changing medium? A course, I would imagine, needs planning over three years. The problem their is that in web design and development three years is an awful long time in terms of best practice and up to date thinking. I want to work with people who know AJAX, real world CSS, semantic thinking XHTML and unobtrusive Javascript. That sort of course simply could not have been written 4 years ago. And writing it now will leave it dramatically out of date in 4 years time &#8211; when all we&#8217;ll be wanting is more Python Programmers (or something)</p>


 <p>In a sort of unlikely to get picked up on sticking neck out statement, I&#8217;d say I&#8217;d love to help out. I see the only option is getting the local web industry involved in education. Seminars, chats, meet-ups, anything that get&#8217;s those in education nearer to the reality (yes &#8211; you do have to consider users other than your mates, tutors and design magazines) the better.</p>


 <p>Anyone else out their think the same? Willing to get involved? Maybe the time is now?</p>


 <p>Leave a comment here or on <a href="http://www.xlab.co.uk/weblog/602">phil&#8217;s post</a> or post something on your site and lets discuss the issue. Does anyone else feel strongly about this? Even as someone not involved in the recruitment side of things directly at the moment I still want to work with the best &#8211; and in my mind so should everyone else.</p>
