---
created_at: 2005/07/31}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "new designs with added width"
---

<p>Any previous visitors will notice something of a redesign which is pretty much finished &#8211; although no doubt their will be a few tweaks over the coming weeks as time permits.</p>


 <p>The main reason was to bring in a liquid design that will allow more space &#8211; something I&#8217;m quite fond of as an idea.</p>


 <p>The default for web pages, before we add any styles, is a liquid layout &#8211; where the site content fills the window whatever the width. This should be ideal for everyone, whatever resolution or monitor (or device) screen size. Why then do a great deal of sites use a fixed width design, my previous design included?</p>


 <p>Design expediancy seems to me to be the main culprit in my view. Not always I&#8217;ll admit &#8211; lots of blog style sites use a fixed width centered column in order to get a readable number of words per line (whether they know it or not), which was my original excuse I&#8217;ll admit. For most designers, and most people, it&#8217;s simply easier to think in terms of thinks that dont change. Using percentages (in a liquid layout) or em&#8217;s (in a <a href="http://www.alistapart.com/articles/elastic">elastic</a> layout) simply takes a bit of getting your head round.</p>


 <p>It&#8217;s the web, not print, and that is something that from my experience (second hand I&#8217;ll admit) is something that isn&#8217;t drilled home on the majority of university or college courses.</p>


 <p>Attractive header graphics is something that lots of sites, in particular commercial sites, employ &#8211; and with good reasons. It&#8217;s a great way of getting across a brand ethos in an attractive and eye catching manner. It&#8217;s also sometimes used as an excuse to use a fixed width design &#8211; the question is why? Try resizing windows and text on www.vivabit.com, www.thebgroup.co.uk or www.capgemini.com .</p>


 <p>One outstanding issue I see is using Flash in a similar way. With broadband usage, especially amongst companies, on the up and up, using Flash (and video) in a similar way becomes increasingly more attractive. So something I&#8217;m going to have a look at is how Flash and either <a href="http://adactio.com/atmedia2005/">unobtrusive javascript</a> or sliding doors techniques can be used to get the cake (attractive, flexible layouts which use Flash &#8211; without breaking the layout) and eat it. More soon.</p>
