---
created_at: 2005/08/29}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "A Typo? On this site?"
---

<p>Well, their are no doubt lots of typo&#8217;s on this site but I&#8217;m referring to the Ruby on Rails blogging application <a href="http://typo.leetsoft.com">Typo</a> (currently version 2.5.5)</p>


 <p>So far I have to say it&#8217;s quite nice. I&#8217;m only playing at the moment &#8211; the site you are currently reading (for those of you actually on the site, and not reading the feed) is a product of my PHP skills. Some of it I like (ie. the bits I wanted to write), others I&#8217;m not too sure about and well, it doesn&#8217;t do anything I cant be bothered to write. Which up until not hasn&#8217;t been a problem. But I&#8217;d still quite like live searching, categories and tags and all that malarkey.</p>


 <p>Browsing the usual supect sites the choice between using a bespoke system and an existing solution seems fairly split. <a href="http://www.hicksdesign.co.uk">John Hicks</a> is always raving about <a href="http://www.textpattern.com">TextPattern</a> and saying nice things. You see lots of <a href="www.movabletype.org/">MovableType</a> fans and <a href="http://www.wordpress.com/">WordPress</a> fans but non to be fair I never really liked them. Maybe that was just me?</p>


 <p>It might be that all, especially WordPress and MovableType are pretty mature solutions and that I like something to hack on? So a custom self built solution seems the way to go? Or does it? With everything providing very similar featuresets &#8211; and differing only in a few important areas building something bespoke means 95% redesigning and rebuilding the wheel and maybe 5% innovation. Which is cool as a learning experience but I&#8217;m now in more of a get stuff done mood of late.</p>


 <p>I haven&#8217;t decided as yet one way or the other but Typo might just be the anwser. Small enough to hack, an excuse to learn Rails and featureful to boot.</p>
