---
created_at: 2005/10/28}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Tonight Tonight - Accessify Meetup"
---

<p><strong>UPDATE</strong> Well. Five people seemed a good number on the notice and the size of the table we got at the Forth. The trick of leaving a copy of bulletproof web design casually on the side of the table worked a treat.</p>


 <p>Lots of hello&#8217;s, some vague recognition and lots of shared experiences and good ideas floated around. All in all a positive thing I though and hopefully the first of similar meetups in Newcastle.</p>


 <p>Hi to, in no particular order:</p>


 <ul>
 <li><a href="http://www.buy.at/">Ben</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.mcskiver.com/blog/">Lee</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://coded.uk.com">Kev</a></li>
  <li>Name to be remembered!</li>
 </ul>


 <p>The <a href="http://www.accessify.com">accessify</a> forum meetup <del>is tonight</del> <ins>was on Thursday</ins> at the <strong>Forth</strong> for anyone who doesn&#8217;t know about it and is around the area. Looking to be a small number turning up but should hopefully be good to meet new people. I&#8217;ll post more details on here, and any photos (no photos, sorry), post event.</p>


 <p>What do I want out of it besides the beer? Hopefully some ideas and enthusiasm. I keep meaning to do more with <a href="http://www.newcastlenewmedia.org">newcastlenewmedia</a> and a few people have expressed an interest in pulling some things off &#8211; the mailing list even kicked off yesterday with a flurry of posts. So some concrete ideas, a broader network and some beer will do nicely.</p>
