---
created_at: 2006/12/23}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "CMS on Rails"
---

<p>Content management is one of those subjects I often get involved in at work, and something I find pretty interesting as a whole &#8211; even if I keep having to reiterate most of the problems with content management are people problems rather than technological ones.</p>


 <p>I&#8217;ve been using <a href="http://textpattern.com">Textpattern</a> for this site and a few others for a couple of years. I&#8217;ve spoken before about the recent move to more hand rolled solutions, and the flexibility that gives people to innovate. As well as occasionally threatening to really kick the tyres on <a href="http://www.djangoproject.com/">Django</a>, <a href="http://rubyonrails.com">Rails</a> or similar (<a href="www.seaside.st">Seaside</a>, <a href="http://webpy.org/">Web.py</a>, ...). I&#8217;ve been wandering the halls of the web development frameworks all year it seems &#8211; playing with <a href="http://www.python.org/">Python</a> and <a href="http://www.ruby-lang.org">Ruby</a> along the way.</p>


 <p>To a point however these seemed more developer focused that something I could see being used by a web designer or small company (some intentionally so in fairness) or in education. However I&#8217;m back playing with Rails and started looking at existing apps to see how they are put together (I love open source) and a quick recce of Rails based CMS products turned up (amongst others that didn&#8217;t interest) <a href="http://radiantcms.org/">Radiant</a>. It <a href="http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2006/09/12/site-launch-at-last/">appears</a> to have been developed along side the <a href="http://www.ruby-lang.org">new Ruby site</a> launched in September and boy is it a nice piece of kit.</p>


 <p>Assuming you have Rails installed, installation of Radiant is as simple as one command (It&#8217;s available as a <a href="http://rubygems.org/">Gem</a>) and then another to get a site up and running (Ok, plus a couple of other simple commands to configure a database). First impressions it looks well put together, with a strong concept well executed and a lovely Interface. It&#8217;s chunky without being cliched and simple without being simplistic. I&#8217;m in the process of making plans for next year and this is hopefully going to feature somewhere. I love looking for a problem where I might just already have the solution.</p>


 <p>Oh, and a only vaguely related note (well, <a href="http://wordpress.com">Wordpress</a> is a content management system of sorts) a couple of friends have started blogging over on <a href="http://breadlinedesign.com">breadlinedesign.com</a> and <a href="http://anotherblog.com">anotherblog.com</a>. Consider this a shameless plug.</p>
