---
created_at: 2006/05/08}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Mission Impossible?"
---

<p>I&#8217;m quite a fan of mobile devices. I&#8217;ve got a <a href="http://www.palm.com/">Palm</a>, I had a <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/1773120.stm">Pogo</a> for jeepers. However, I dont really have a geek phone at the moment (long story) &#8211; I&#8217;m still using my K700i.</p>


 <p>While watching the last day of premiership football in a suitable venue I thought I might see about going to the cinema. With my trusty phone I <em>tried</em> to find what was going on. I waded through pages and pages. I did searches. It sent me round in circles more than once and I gave up more than once. I found some info. I tried to buy tickets. It failed to acknowledge the existence of first the cinema, and then the film.</p>


 <p>Someone asked me at a recent talk about how easy it was to make sites compatible with mobile devices and I said (something like) &#8220;pretty easy&#8221;. I&#8217;m not happy with that answer now, so I&#8217;m going to change the question. How easy <em>should it</em> be to makes compatible sites?</p>


 <p><a href="http://www.w3schools.com/wap/wml_reference.asp">WML</a> might not be sexy, but it&#8217;s still in use all over the place. Support for mobile style sheets for proper web browsing seems all over the shop, with hundreds of different browsers pulling every which way.</p>


 <p>Their are a host of IA issues that browsing on a mobile device brings up. A vast number of slightly new challenges to look at &#8211; and importantly a whole new way of confusing the user.</p>


 <p>It makes you think maybe we need a dominant browser in the mobile space? Something to occupy alot of the ground and for the other browsers to loath and persue endlessly?</p>


 <p>We also need some centres of best practice. I&#8217;m sure their are some out there. I just dont know where yet. Some references. A Mobile <a href="http://csszengarden.com">Zen Garden</a>. A good book or two to <a href="http://webdesignbookshelf.com">review</a>. Any thoughts?</p>
