---
created_at: 2006/11/12}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "An Admission about Source Control"
---

<p>I have an admission to make; for personal projects, of which I have many, I haven&#8217;t been using source control until now. The reason? Probably laziness. I do lots of reading around the whole software development process but most of that gets used at work, at least until now.</p>


 <p>One of my favourite articles is the old <a href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/fog0000000043.html">Joel Test</a>. Some of this is less relevant to the home developer, but it does give you somewhere to start from. Well, I&#8217;ve now got <a href="http://subversion.tigris.org/">subversion</a> up and running and all new projects will be going in their. I&#8217;ve already added the repository to my backup policy. The free book <a href="http://svnbook.red-bean.com/">Version Control with Subversion</a> provided all the information I needed to get up and running. I&#8217;m more of a fan of command line interfaces anyway so haven&#8217;t installed any special interface. I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;ll look into the <a href="http://www.macromates.com/">Textmate</a> integration once I know my way around the command line interface a bit more.</p>


 <p>Next up I&#8217;m on the lookout for something to use for bug tracking. I already use <a href="http://backpackit.com">backpack</a> and <a href="http://basecamphq.com">basecamp</a> for different activities but I&#8217;m not sure yet if they will do for proper bug tracking. I dont really like <a href="http://www.bugzilla.org/">bugzilla</a>, although maybe <a href="http://trac.edgewall.org/">trac</a> is what I&#8217;m looking for?</p>


 <p>What does anyone else use, either for source control or bug tracking?</p>
