---
created_at: 2006/12/03}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Well, how did I do"
---

<p>Well, the year is ever so nearly over. Again. I&#8217;m sure their will be a good few round ups, I&#8217;ll probably even partake <a href="http://morethanseven.net/posts/obligatory-next-year-post">again</a>, but thought I&#8217;d start off with a quick look at how I got on with my <a href="http://morethanseven.net/posts/more-to-comestatement-of-intent">list of stuff to do</a>.</p>


 <p>I did the conference thing again and I&#8217;m sure I will be back this coming year. <a href="http://www.vivabit.com/atmedia2006/">@media</a>, <a href="http://www.futureofwebapps.com/">Future of Web Apps</a> and <a href="http://2006.dconstruct.org/">dConstruct</a> all look like going from strength to strength. And all being different enought to be worth going along. And I stayed awake throughout the Ajax workshops and I&#8217;m pretty sure I got to everything @media had to offer. So that&#8217;s three ticked off.</p>


 <p>On the article publishing thang. Well, I&#8217;m know writing for <a href="http://www.thinkvitamin.com/">Vitamin</a> &#8211; doing book reviews as often as I can do, two so far on <a href="http://www.thinkvitamin.com/reviews/coding/communicating-design-by-dan-brown/">Communicating Design</a> and <a href="http://www.thinkvitamin.com/reviews/dev/using-microformats-by-brian-suda/">Using Microformats</a> and more to come. Hopefully more to come on that front too. Another tick I reckon.</p>


 <p>The next two, related to building and releasing stuff (specifically Rails and the feed syndicator) I sort of passed on. I actually have some things in the works but I&#8217;m not likely to get their this year. The reason was probably my flirtation with all sorts of other things &#8211; in particular Python. Releasing bits of code is something I&#8217;m going to do more of. Watch this space. Two crosses.</p>


 <p>Locally I messed up the domain name but settled on the nicer <a href="http://refreshnewcastle.org">refreshnewcastle.org</a> and with a little help from <a href="http://thewatchmakerproject.com/">Matthew <del>Patterson</del> Pennell</a> have a nice new site. Next year I want to do more than just web site related bits an pieces. Maybe half a tick?</p>


 <p>Now the &#8220;something vague&#8221; idea. Well, <a href="http://morethanseven.net/posts/teaching">teaching web design</a> at Newcastle College definately counts here I think. I didn&#8217;t see this coming and hopefully I&#8217;m doing a good job so far.</p>


 <p>Ok, so not bad going, but I could do better. And looking back over a list I made a year ago is quite interesting. I guess I&#8217;m posting this early to encourage anyone reading it to post a list of things they want to do next year. Anyone got any ideas?</p>
