---
created_at: 2006/02/09}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "One Conference Down"
---

<p>Well, yesterday was the long awaited <a href="http://carsonworkshops.com/summit">Carson Summit</a> which seemed to go pretty well all in all. Lots of <a href="http://adactio.com/journal/1087/">reviews</a> and <a href="http://simon.incutio.com/archive/2006/02/08/summit">notes</a> around at the moment but I&#8217;ll just throw a couple of my personal observations into the mix.</p>


 <p>The presentation where all good, but nothing mindblowing. Most had something going for them; whether <a href="http://www.loudthinking.com/">enthusiasm</a>, <a href="http://carsonworkshops.com">numbers</a> or a <a href="http://feedburner.com">special announcement</a></p>


 <p>I liked <a href="http://plasticbag.org">Tom Coates</a> diatribe about clean URLs, it something I&#8217;m fairly keen on too, I&#8217;m uming and arring over whether I too am a <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/redux/97126279/">URL Fetishist</a></p>


 <p>The <a href="http://google.com">Google</a> vs <a href="http://yahoo.com">Yahoo</a> show was entertaining and interesting. Reading that Google tend to be more academic with Yahoo being a little bit more unhinged/entreprenurial is one thing &#8211; going to a conference where the guy from Google came across as something of a mad german professor with something of an <a href="http://www.google.co.uk/search?q=javascript">axe</a> to grind, compared to the Yahoo mob who ranged from a <a href="http://plasticbag.org">self confessed hippy</a> to <a href="http://www.iamcal.com/">Cal</a> and his three quarter length trousers. It&#8217;s appears all the rumours are true.</p>


 <p>I did a couple of stints of SubEthaEdit collaborative note taking with <a href="http://simon.incutio.com/archive/2006/02/08/summit">Simon</a> which was fun and interesting at the same time. The <em>who&#8217;s going to write the next part</em> bit was quite amusing &#8211; at times writing the same things down, then everyone deleting them, then a pause.</p>


 <p>The after show was, as always, good fun and fairly drunken. The pub was nice, but whomever suggested it on the wiki was playing a cruel joke. A conference with 800 geeks and a pub about 3 people wide at it&#8217;s widest point is not sensible. Neither was <a href="http://splintered.co.uk">Patrick&#8217;s</a> suggestion about not eating, but it all worked out in the end.</p>


 <p>Was good to meet up with lots of people, both those <a href="http://htmldog.com">I</a> <a href="http://splintered.co.uk">had</a> <a href="http://www.thewatchmakerproject.com/">met</a> <a href="http://pixelicious.co.uk/">before</a> and those that <a href="http://cackhanded.net/">I hadn&#8217;t</a>. Hope to see everyone again soon, if not it will have to be <a href="http://vivabit.com/atmedia2006">@media</a>.</p>
