---
created_at: 2006/02/06}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Molly in Newcastle"
---

<p>Not so subtle hint in the subject line, but without further ado, Molly (yes, that <a href="http://molly.com">Molly</a>) is coming to Newcastle for a talk.</p>


 <p>All the details are still being confirmed but we are talking:</p>


 <p><strong>15th February</strong>
Room 149 Northumberland Building, Northumbria University, City Campus, Newcastle, NE1 8ST
<strong>5-7pm</strong></p>


 <p>After talk drinks and food to be confirmed. Probably going to be along the lines of &#8220;Webstandards and Usability&#8221; with some time for a Q&#38;A session as well.</p>


 <p>Big up to <a href="http://tomsimcox.com">Tom Simcox</a> here. He&#8217;s been threatening for a while and with Molly in the country she&#8217;s agreed to come and visit little old us. Mark (of sunderland uni and NEUA fame) also sorted out the venue, amongst other things. Good job everyone.</p>


 <p>We need people along for this so tell you employers, whoop to your colleagues, threaten you employees and be there.</p>


 <p>I&#8217;ll post more details as they are confirmed. If your from outside the region and want to come along let me know. It&#8217;s short notice but sometimes these things are &#8211; and you know you dont want to miss out.</p>


 <p>To help us gauge interest a little it would be grate if you interested  to leave a comment below. If you cant come along because say, <a href="http://xlab.co.uk">it&#8217;s your birthday</a>, then what questions would you like asking?</p>
