---
created_at: 2006/02/01}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Small Software"
---

<p>Of late I&#8217;ve found myself making quite a few smaller purchases of software. I&#8217;ve always been a fan of Open Source (and before that shareware &#8211; mainly on the ZX Spectrum) and still use lots of open source apps (anyone say Firefox) but for some really specific jobs it&#8217;s nice to have something you know is maybe a little more polished.</p>


 <p>I dont know if it&#8217;s just me getting older and having more disposable income, or a greater appreciation of what it takes to make really good software (probably a bit of both) but it&#8217;s sort of snuck up on me? Anyone else finding the same? I know <a href="http://hicksdesign.co.uk">Jon</a> has been mentioning some <a href="http://www.hicksdesign.co.uk/journal/happy-old-man">cool new apps</a> he&#8217;s using. What about everyone else?</p>


 <p>Recent purchase have included the following, nearly all bought with <a href="http://paypal.com">PayPal</a> as it happens:</p>


 <ul>
 <li><a href="http://www.rogueamoeba.com/airfoil/">Airfoil</a> allows any sounds (mainly music) to be send round the house to speakers connected to my AirPort. Lovely.</li>
  <li><a href="http://www.nullriver.com/index/products/pspware">PSPWare</a> Like iSync but for my PSP. Also converts movies.</li>
  <li><a href="http://www.griffintechnology.com/products/radioshark/">radioShark</a> Ok, software and hardware but useful at times.</li>
  <li><a href="http://www.haveamint.com">Mint</a> I&#8217;ve mentioned before. Lovely stats.</li>
 </ul>


 <p>I&#8217;m also evaluating (and at the moment being impressed by) a few other apps. Upcoming purchases probably.</p>


 <ul>
 <li><a href="http://standalone.com/palmos/quick_news/">QuickNews</a> RSS reader (and podcasting app) for Palm OS.</li>
  <li><a href="http://www.pocket-tunes.com/">PocketTunes</a> Good quality audio player for Palm OS, much better than the bundled Real Audio.</li>
  <li><a href="http://macromates.com/">TextMate</a> The missing editor for OS X? Maybe. It&#8217;s toying with me at the moment to sit aside <a href="http://www.codingmonkeys.de/subethaedit/">SubEthaEdit</a></li>
 </ul>


 <p>On a blog related point, I&#8217;m aware I&#8217;ve been blogging more technology related stuff of late. I&#8217;ll be back with alot more web design and development banter soon, and some things happening up this neck of the woods (including a revamped <a href="http://newcastlenewmedia.org">newcastlenewmedia</a> site hopefully) &#8211; it&#8217;s a matter of having the ideas but not having the time! Hope it&#8217;s still all interesting to everyone.</p>
