---
created_at: 2006/12/19}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Food 2.0"
---

<p>I&#8217;m something of a want to be foodie. I&#8217;ve been a fan of food since working in a <a href="http://www.bentleys-foodandwine.co.uk/">restaurant</a> as a KP way back when I was at school. I like staying in and cooking, watching the odd food related progamme and going out to nice restaurants. However, I suddently realised it&#8217;s one of those things I dont yet do online. Most of the other things I do, or am interested in, I do at least in part online &#8211; except food.</p>


 <p>So I set out to see what I could find. I&#8217;d <a href="http://corkd.com/people/garethr/cellar">signed up</a> for <a href="http://corkd.com/">Cork&#8217;d</a> a while back after the buzz around the site in the web standards and Rails community. I&#8217;ve added a few wines and a few drinking buddies and keep thinking I should keep it up to date but&#8230;</p>


 <p>A quick search threw up <a href="http://chugd.com/">Chug&#8217;d</a>, <a href="http://www.menuism.com/">Menuism</a> and <a href="http://www.recipematcher.com/">Recipe matcher</a> to name but a few &#8211; all complete with Web 2.0 cliches. But nothing that really made me want to sign up. I&#8217;m not looking for a food community really, more a useful tool to store food related tit bits. Recipes. Which wine goes with what and when the best time to get perculier beers might be. Like a food focused version of <a href="http://backpackit.com">backpack</a> maybe? A mobile interface, hey maybe even a Palm based data entry setup would top things off nicely.</p>


 <p>Any other food people reading with a workflow that works? We&#8217;re always talking about software workflow or <a href="http://www.davidco.com/what_is_gtd.php">getting things done</a> but what about something important like food!</p>
