---
created_at: 2006/03/14}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Reading up on a speedy industry"
---

<p>I had cause today to stop and think about books relevant to learning the bigger picture side of building web sites and applications. Code, graphic design, whatever your bag in between, you are either aiming to become, will become or at least affected by people in management positions. Even small companies are not immune, though they can avoid some of the problems (but often by causing some other ones as well.)</p>


 <p>I&#8217;m a big fan of books, I read lots online but when it comes to regular, night after night reading I much prefer to be in bed with a book than a laptop. I have no problem at all falling asleep and the book falling lightly on the floor for the morning.</p>


 <p>Books do however date, or rather some do, or maybe if you take them as gospel they do. Anyhow, I see them as useful &#8211; perhaps even more so in distilling knowledge for consumption by other, less obsessive, members of out industry?</p>


 <p>Without further ado I present a short(ish) list of books I think everyone involved in web software should read:</p>


 <ul>
 <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/020161622X">The Pragmatic Programmer</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0974514047">Ship It!: A Practical Guide to Successful Software Projects</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0596001088">The Cathedral &#38; the Bazaar</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0735713286">Web Design on a Shoestring</a> </li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0735712026">Return on Design: Smarter Web Design for Hard Times </a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0735712018">Designing with Web Standards</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0789723700">The Art and Science of Web Design</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0201835959">The Mythical Man Month</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0735714339">Web Redesign Workflow that Works</a></li>
 </ul>


 <p>Some are most definately on the software side, others very web centric while more still are a little older and just plain odd. However all of them serve a purpose, they let people see into a way of thinking. The idea that programmers are <em>wizards</em> annoys me. It&#8217;s not magic, it&#8217;s creativity, just with tools most people are not familiar with.</p>


 <p>If you are someone involved with the building of appications give some of the above a try if you ever feel like reading up on something different, apart from the latest <a href="http://cssmastery.com">CSS</a> or <a href="http://domscripting.com/">Javascript</a> tricks.</p>


 <p>If your involved in the management of projects but come from a non software (dont kid yourself because it&#8217;s the web it&#8217;s not software) background then dive in. You&#8217;ll start to understand some of the little bits that puzzle you so.</p>


 <p>Anyone else got any books in a similar vein? I&#8217;m always on the look out for an interesting read. Or do you complely disagree &#8211; do you even still read books?</p>
