---
created_at: 2006/06/19}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "And then it was all over"
---

<p>Yes folks. <a href="http://vivabit.com/atmedia2006">@media 2006</a> is all over. Except for the year thing, everything else really was doubled. Double the people. Double the speakers. Double the number of chairs (no sitting on the floor this time!)</p>


 <p>I made a list of a couple of things to make sure I did. Well how did I do?</p>


 <ul>
 <li>Take photos &#8211; Check. I&#8217;ll upload as I get a chance, but in the meantime their are already quite a few over on <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/atmedia/">the atmedia flickr tag</a></li>
  <li>More SubEthaEdit note taking &#8211; With the problems with the wi-fi this was held to a single session on <a href="http://nascentguruism.com/files/events/atmedia-2006/20060615-1400-the-new-accessibility-guidelines-wcag-20.txt">WCAG 2.0</a> with <a href="http://nascentguruism.com">Steve</a> and <a href="http://ben-ward.co.uk">Ben</a></li>
  <li>Eat food (You know who I’m talking about) &#8211; Again score one. Some photos from a nice mexican place on the Thursday with <a href="http://thinkdrastic.net/">Olly</a> and <a href="http://www.liptrot.org">Adam</a></li>
  <li>Keep updating the syndicator thing &#8211; Again wi-fi problems but I did it each night anyhow. 38 new posts over the few days, and I need to add a few more sites. I do keep wondering about just using Technorati anyhow?</li>
  <li>Watch the football (sorry, it is the World Cup) &#8211; I wont talk about that. Until I switched from drinking Corona to Asashi it was a little dull.</li>
 </ul>


 <p>Apart from that I got up to the usual geekery. Met lots of people. Drank a few beers. Went to a few talks and panels.</p>


 <p>I wandered around with a whole host of people. I&#8217;d try and name drop but I&#8217;d miss someone and make them feel bad. Well, ok, probably not but their you go.</p>


 <p>The evening of the first night of the conference was particularly amusing. Wetherspoons for food, a short rant with <a href="http://quirksmode.org">PPK</a> and <a href="http://brothercake.co.uk">James</a> about (what else) Javascript and then spending the evening under the stars with <a href="http://splintered.co.uk">Patrick</a>, <a href="http://www.logohere.co.uk/blog/blog.htm">Andy</a> and a few others was, er, entertaining? slightly disturbing? bordering on stalking? All of those and more.</p>


 <p>Their is simply too much to say and too little time. Which sort of explains the lack of details about the sessions and my take on them. I&#8217;ll probably post more about how I think the social side of things really is an integral part of these do&#8217;s, and how <a href="http://molly.com">Molly</a> really does deserve some sort of medal, and, well, you get the slighty hyper idea. And with my wi-fi hopefully working at home by now keep your readers peeled for both irreverant (sorry &#8211; irrelevant) banter and hopefully a couple of interesting insights and highlights.</p>


 <p>More name dropping next time. Promise. Oh, and leave a comment if I said hi, it&#8217;s always a pleasure guys.</p>
