---
created_at: 2006/01/14}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "More to come/statement of intent"
---

<p>More of a statement of intend, for posterity&#8217;s sake hopefully. Something I can look back on and think &#8220;Oh, yeah, I meant to do that&#8221; later in the year. Also so I dont forget, or just decide I couldn&#8217;t be bothered. Why this all of a sudden? Well, it&#8217;s the start of the new year anyway, but in particular the first meetup of people from the <a href="http://newcastlenewmedia.org">Newcastle New Media</a> list got me thinking. And in particular more than thinking, wanting to act on existing thoughts.</p>


 <p>So, without further ado, here is a brief list of thinks I&#8217;m going to do this year &#8211; fingers crossed, in no partricular order and missing several things that no one reading this will care about:</p>


 <ul>
 <li>Get as much out of the <a href="http://carsonworkshops.com/summit">Future of Web Apps Summit</a> as possible. I&#8217;m pretty interested in the <em>design</em> of applications at the moment.</li>
  <li>Not still have a hangover for the <a href="http://clearleft.com">Clearleft</a> <a href="http://www.clearleft.com/services/training/ajax.php">Ajax training session</a> with <a href="http://adactio.com/">Jeremy</a> two days after the summit.</li>
  <li>Get an article written and published in something I read.</li>
  <li>Package up the <a href="http://morethanseven.net/atmedia2006">feed syndicator</a> code base under a decent name and release it for anyone to use.</li>
  <li>Produce a real application using <a href="http://rubyonrails.com">Rails</a>.</li>
  <li>Somehow get to all four (or is it five, I can&#8217;t remember) of the <a href="http://vivabit.com/atmedia2006">@media</a> themed nights out &#8211; as well as as many of the workshops and presentations one personn can get to without <a href="http://www.muffinresearch.co.uk/archives/2006/01/5/@media2006.php">cloning</a></li>
  <li>On the back of our first real local meetup get a few projects moving. Everyone put email addresses to faces, which I think was important, and should make getting together doing something active easier from now on.</li>
  <li>And finally something vague; (note that this isn&#8217;t me with an idea under wraps, this is as far as I&#8217;ve got!) Design and build something <em>of use</em> to the wider web community.</li>
 </ul>


 <p>I may have forgetten a couple of things, I&#8217;ll add them as I see fit. Anyone else got a list that they would like to share? Either on here or post a link to your own site.</p>
