---
created_at: 2006/03/08}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Apples and PEARs"
---

<p>I&#8217;ve finally decided that <a href="http://pear.php.net">PEAR</a> is a good thing. For those unfamiliar with it it&#8217;s a little like CPAN for Perl. For those unfamiliar with <em>that</em> it&#8217;s a repository of high quality PHP code, covering everything from benchmarking and debugging to database abstraction.</p>


 <p>I&#8217;m about to dive back into PHP after a minor break playing with mainly client side toys, and with my work now mainly on the markup/styles and planning side of things PHP is a nice break. <strong>PHP isn&#8217;t the devil</strong> as far as I&#8217;m concerned, and I think now I&#8217;ve grown up PEAR is part of the non devil like side to PHP &#8211; the professional side if you will.</p>


 <p>I like PHP for it&#8217;s flexibility. The same problems this causes in terms of it being easy to write poor, unmaintainable code are the same boons in brings if you use it nicely. I dont want static typing, on occasion being able to get down and dirty with procedural code is handy and with so much <em>good</em> code out there in places like PEAR it&#8217;s often very quick to put together something from existing parts.</p>


 <p>I even went as far as getting a book, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1590592808/104-7139045-1616718?v=glance&#38;n=283155">PHP Tools</a> to have a good going through. I&#8217;ve been on something of a mad web design book shopping spree of late, so I&#8217;ll try do a quick round up of books soon as well.</p>


 <p>Anyone else have much playtime with PEAR, or similar code repositories?</p>


 <p><em>PS. Apologies for the two week hiatus. I&#8217;m something of a busy person at the moment. More quality posts as soon as possible. Promise.</em></p>
