---
created_at: 2006/01/04}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "@media redux"
---

<p>Yes it&#8217;s back. <a href="http://vivabit.com/atmedia2006">@media</a> returns as promised by <a href="http://htmldog.com">Patrick</a> last year and, well, it&#8217;s definately bigger. Two streams, more speakers and panels than you can shake a pink elephant at. I know for a fact that this was being planned even before <a href="http://molly.com">Molly</a> had left the bar last year and boy does it show.</p>


 <p>The blogs are alight with the sound of people coming up with something, anything to tell their bosses in the morning. I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;m not the only one still awake either posting comments (Yes <a href="http://zachinglis.com">Zach</a>, <a href="http://spintered.co.uk">Patrick</a> I do mean you) and making blog posts.</p>


 <p>I&#8217;ll post more about what I want to see, how I&#8217;m going to decide which sessions to go to (I&#8217;ll need some sort of system &#8211; simply trying to decide which one&#8217;s will be best will only end in heartbreak) over the next 6 months or so. Yes it really is that far away. With the <a href="http://www.carsonworkshops.com/summit">Carson Summit</a> coming up so soon as well that should more than keep me going &#8211; especially with them having different emphasise (web standards/accessibility and web application development/design respectively) to keep thinks from getting boring.</p>


 <p>And with all that in mind the reason it&#8217;s late when I post this makes sense. Yes it&#8217;s <a href="http://morethanseven.net/atmedia">another</a> <a href="http://morethanseven.net/dconstruct">feed</a> <a href="http://morethanseven.net/carson">agregator</a> thing.</p>


 <p><a href="http://morethanseven.net/atmedia2006">morethanseven.net/atmedia2006</a></p>


 <p>The place is already starting to hot up and I&#8217;d guess that will only get worse (or better?) over the next few days. I&#8217;m glad to get in early this time. Last year proved useful (at least to me) in keeping up with the aftershow goings on with 150 posts from 52 feeds &#8211; but  I only got it together a week or so after the event, thanks mainly to <a href="http://kurafire.net">Faruk</a> for compiling the initial list of posts.</p>


 <p>Any bugs or suggestions let me know. Also if anyone has a good name (feed agregator is pretty mechanical) then please do tell. I&#8217;ve added a few of the requested features from previous editions and it&#8217;s now possible to quickly suggest new feeds and to search through all the posts.</p>


 <p>Anyway &#8211; Hope to see people in June. My predictions of a year of real world activity to mirror our enlightened online existence are coming to fruitition already.</p>
