---
created_at: 2007/03/28}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Even More Events"
---

I occasionally get some stick for wandering the country attending as many web related get togethers as I can manage but in fairness their are so many good events to get along to at the moment it would be rude not to. So here's yet another run down of some upcoming events that people really should try and get along to:

h3. The Highland Fling

Yes! It's "The Highland Fling":http://thehighlandfling.com in only a couple of weeks and it's still looking as great as when I bought my tickets. A nice, small, event with a host of good speakers (and good guys) and it's not south of me for the first time ever. Props to "Alan":http://www.alanwhitewebdevelopment.com/ for getting this off the ground.

h3. Refresh Edinburgh

If that wasn't enought it's worth staying around an extra day in Edinburgh for a Refresh get together. Again a good lineup of "speakers":http://groups.google.com/group/refresh-edinburgh/browse_thread/thread/be872d4891580ee4 and I would imagine a much interesting discussion and debate.

h3. BarCamp NorthEast

With all the "BarCamp":http://barcamp.org goings on around "BarCamp London":http://barcamp.org/BarCampLondon2 lots of other UK BarCamps have started to get organised, including one around "these parts":http://barcamp.org/BarCampNorthEast. Heather, "Alistair":http://www.agm.me.uk/blog, "Meri":http://blog.meriwilliams.com/ and myself (ably supported with some soon to be revealed logo design by "Elly":http://www.ellythompson.co.uk/blog/) have plans. Watch this space.

h3. Barcamp Sheffield

While we're getting out act together another northern BarCamp is about to get going. "BarCamp Sheffield":http://barcamp.org/BarCampSheffield is happening in only a few weeks time. I'm hoping to make it along, maybe just for the saturday, but if anyone else is going along let me know.

h3. HackDay 

If that wasn't already enought (and I haven't even mentioned "@media":http://www.vivabit.com/atmedia2007/) their was something of a "big announcement":http://backstage.bbc.co.uk/news/archives/2007/03/hack_day_2007_g.html from "Matt":http://www.thelondonbiker.com/blog/ over at the BBC today. Matt, and "Tom":http://www.plasticbag.org/ from Yahoo have put together what looks like being _the_ event of the year over the weekend of June 16th and 17th. Hackday is going to involve 400 geeks (you and me and all our friends in other words) spending 48 hours hacking on APIs and the like then watching some suitably bemused band.

Most of these have details on "Upcoming":http://upcoming.org which I'm increasingly thinking could be incredibly useful if only a few more people used it. So after telling you to go to all these events (which would cost money) I'll leave with telling you all to sign up for Upcoming (which costs nothing) and add "me":http://upcoming.org/user/52694/ as a friend.
