---
created_at: 2007/11/07}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Some useful mobile web design links"
---

Earlier in the year I set aside some time to get my head into the mobile web. Most of this was reading and tinkering. Since then I've pointed a number of people (including clients and people in the pub) towards some or all of the following links. A good starting point for anyone starting to get interested in the mobile web.

A good starting place is "Mobile Web Design":http://mobilewebbook.com/ by Cameron Moll which is available as a PDF, and now as a "hard copy from lulu":http://www.lulu.com/content/1281648. Definitely worth your while. If you're not convinced then you can read the "original series of articles":http://www.cameronmoll.com/archives/000398.html to get started.

The "Mobile Web Best Practices 1.0":http://www.w3.org/TR/mobile-bp from the W3C Mobile Web Initiative and "Global Authoring Practices for the Mobile Web":http://www.passani.it/gap are more good starting points, this time with more of an implementation focus. "Blue Flavor":http://www.blueflavor.com/ also have an intersting presentation you can download on the subject of "Designing for Mobile":http://www.blueflavor.com/presentations/DesigningforMobile.pdf

Once you have a basic understanding, or if you just want _the facts_ then check out "The Wireless FAQ":http://www.thewirelessfaq.com/. Everything from "What is WAP?":http://www.thewirelessfaq.com/in_short_what_is_wap up to "Nokia S60 WAP browser cursor skip some links on my WAP site! What is wrong?":http://www.thewirelessfaq.com/nokia_s60_wap_browser_cursor_skip_some_links_on_my_wap_site_what_is_wrong is in there somewhere.

If you're too busy to be reading everything written about mobile, or just prefer listening to the voice of "Paul Boag":http://www.boagworld.com/, then have a listen to "Boagworld episode 96":http://www.boagworld.com/archives/2007/10/show_96_moll_on_mobile.html. Heidi Pollock at the recent "Future of Web Apps":http://futureofwebapps.com was also excellent, especially if you let your numbers. You can get the "presentation":http://www.slideshare.net/heidipollock/heidi-pollock-fowa-07/ and "audio":http://cdn.libsyn.com/carsonsystems/heidi_pollock.mp3 of the talk now.

If you have still have questions after reading a few good articles or books then their are a couple of high quality mailing lists, namely "wmlprogramming":http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/wmlprogramming/ and "mobiledesign":http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/mobiledesign/. It's worth being subscribed to both, thought their is quite a bit of audience cross over.

The ".mobi site":http://mtld.mobi also has lots of useful information regarding mobile. Whether you buy into the need for a new top level domain or not it's worth reading.

Lots of reading to get you started and not one mentioned of the iPhone...

Have any other good links for getting started in the mobile web? Leave a comment with further suggestions.
