---
created_at: 2008/04/29}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Moving to London, Working For GCAP"
---

On departing "pubstandards":http://www.pubstandards.co.uk/ in London a few weeks ago "Dirk Ginader":http://blog.ginader.de/ said something along the lines of:

bq. According to Dopplr you've spent 40 odd days in London in the last 8 months. Don't you think you might as well just move here?

I'm not saying that had anything to do with it, but I'm happy to announce I'm moving to London in a permanent manner very very soon. I'm taking up a job at "GCAP":http://www.gcapmedia.com, working with quite a few people I know from various web goings on; Hi to "Simon":http://simonwillison.net, "Ross":http://thecssdiv.co.uk/, "Brad":http://intranation.com/, "Ed":http://www.ejeliot.com/ and "Stuart":http://muffinresearch.co.uk/ amongst others.

Freelancing for the last year has been great. I'd been able to work on the variety of projects I'd wanted after leaving my previous job, and I've had more time to myself when I wanted to get involved with other projects. "WaSP":http://webstandards.org, "SXSW":http://sxsw.com/, "Highland Fling":http://thehighlandfling.com/, "BarCamp":http://barcamp.org/BarCampNorthEast, "Thinking Digital":http://thinkingdigital.co.uk/ to name a few things I've been up to in the past 6 months. But something about working with a super smart team of people won me over. The fact that I'll get to focus on Python and Django is an added bonus.

"Patrick":http://htmldog.com/ apparently closed the book on this happening some time ago. I'm just hoping someone got the date about right and won the money. I'm sure I'll write more about the whole thing as time permits and lots of specific topics spring to mind. I have a number of events in the next month to get along to before all this happens however; if you're along at Xtech, Thinking Digital, London Web Week, BarCamp NorthEast, BarCamp London 4 or @media then remember to say hi. My addiction to attending web events can only get worse with me being nearer London I fear.
