---
created_at: 2008/05/20}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: []
title: "Newcastle Web Week"
---

The North East is stealing a march on London this week with all sorts going on for those who like a real world get together. Although not quite as busy as "London Web Week":http://www.londonwebweek.co.uk/ next week we have the "Thinking Digital":http://thinkingdigital.co.uk/ conference kicking off tomorrow, followed by a "Geek Dinner":geekdinner.co.uk/ on Friday night and then "BarCampNorthEast":http://barcamp.org/BarCampNorthEast over the weekend. I'm even planning on popping out tonight with a few people in town for the festivities. As if fate somehow got involved the weather is also pretty darn nice today too.

If you didn't already know about these events and you're in the area their just might still be the chance to come along. We have a few places left for barcamp in particular, you just need to "register over on eventwax":http://barcampnortheast.eventwax.com/barcampnortheast/register. And the Geek Dinner on friday night at The Pitcher and Piano is open to all, at least until it fills up.

It really is great to see thing happening at this end of the country, and a real shame I'm leaving the area so soon afterwards. I really hope the local community gets behind all these events and they act as a catalyst for interesting things. I've always been of the mind that if you can get enough smart, interested people together in one place then good things will happen. It's why I enjoy going along to conferences, hackdays and barcamps. It's also one of the main reasons I joined GCap.

Once I've recovered from the next two weeks (which may take a while as next week I'm in London for "@media":http://www.vivabit.com/atmedia2008/london/, "BarCampLondon4":http://barcamp.org/BarCampLondon4 and anything else I can get along to) I'll hopefully write more about trying to organise a barcamp and, if I really get time to think, about knowledge workers outside and inside London. 

But in the meantime leave a comment if you're going to be around in Newcastle over the next week. It should be a great opportunity to meet new and old friends alike.
