---
created_at: 2009/03/14}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: [appengine, jaiku]
title: "XMPP and Queues in App Engine via Jaiku? Not quite yet"
---

So "JauikuEngine":http://code.google.com/p/jaikuengine, the open source, App Engine based, version of Jaiku is now available for everyone to look at. I "found the repo a couple of days ago":http://twitter.com/garethr/status/1321372099 but it was restricted to project members. The main reason I want to hunt through the code is to have a look at what I'm guessing will be API's available in a soon to be released version of App Engine - with specific interest in anything to do with XMPP, queues and offline processing.

Well it looks like I'm out of luck for the moment at least. In the "settings file":http://code.google.com/p/jaikuengine/source/browse/trunk/settings.py I found the following two snippets though:

pre. #
# XMPP / IM
#
# Enabling IM will require a bit more than just making this True, please
# read the docs at http://code.google.com/p/jaikuengine/wiki/im_support
IM_ENABLED = False
# This is the id (JID) of the IM bot that you will use to communicate with
# users of the IM interface
IM_BOT = 'root@example.com'
# Turn on test mode for IM
IM_TEST_ONLY = False
# JIDs to allow when testing live XMPP so you don't spam all your users
IM_TEST_JIDS = []

And another for queues:

pre. #
# Task Queue
#
# Enabling the queue will allow you to process posts with larger numbers
# of followers but will require you to set up a cron job that will continuously
# ping a special url to make sure the queue gets processed
QUEUE_ENABLED = True
# The secret to use for your cron job that processes your queue
QUEUE_VENDOR_SECRET = 'SECRET'

The only problem appears to be that the page referenced, "code.google.com/p/jaikuengine/wiki/im_support":http://code.google.com/p/jaikuengine/wiki/im_support, currently says:

bq. TODO(termie): describe how to get IM working with Jaiku Engine

So "termie":http://twitter.com/termie, or anyone else on the inside, I'd love to know how to get this up and running?

I'll be having a better look through the code when I get a chance. This was just the first thing I jumped on before heading out the door. I love Open Source.

