---
created_at: 2009/08/31}
layout: post
comments: true
categories: [django, djugl]
title: "Another chance to DJUGL"
---

"DJUGL":http://djugl.eventwax.com/djugllondon-python is back, the _monthly_ Django meetup in London. I think the last few times have been as much about useful Python stuff as just using Django, and this time it's officially a bit more broad ranging. If you're in or around London on the 24th September then come along.

You can get more information on "Twitter":http://twitter.com/londonpython or by following "Rob":http://twitter.com/robertlofthouse/. But expect a few short talks, some interesting conversations and maybe some beer with other like minded developers.

I'm going to be talking about automating deployment of Python web applications. If you follow me on Twitter you'll have heard me rambling a little about some of what I've been up to, and some of the posts here give an insight into what I've been working on. But the short version is that several friends mentioned how difficult it could be to get a working Django application from a local machine to a production web server. And I though I better get down in script form my experiences of Django, WSGI applications and web server setup to make things easier.

I think this situation is partially caused by the success of the Django development server, and partially by people coming from a PHP background. In my PHP days I think I always wanted to know how Apache did it's think, so long ago jumped into anything and everything in httpd.conf from loading modules to virtual hosts. But not everyone does the same, and PHP does make simple deployments easy enough that you might get away without doing so. Rails went through the same problems and seems to be coming out the other side. I'm hoping that Django and Python is soon to be in the same position, where basic deployment is just a given.
