---
created_at: 2011/07/31
excerpt: 
layout: post
comments: true
categories: [vim, homebrew]
title: "Vim With Ruby Support Using Homebrew"
---

I've spend a bit of time this weekend cleaning, tidying and upgrading software on my mac. While doing that I got round to compiling my own Vim. I'd been meaning to do this for a while, I prefer using Vim in a terminal to using MacVim, and I like having access to things like "Command-T":http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3025 which requires Ruby support which the inbuild version lacks.

Vim isn't in Homebrew, because Homebrew's policy is to not provide duplicates of already installed software. Enter "Homebrew Alt":https://github.com/adamv/homebrew-alt which provides formulas for anything not allowed by the homebrew policy. As luck would have it a "Vim Formula":https://github.com/adamv/homebrew-alt/blob/master/duplicates/vim.rb already exists. And installing from it couldn't be easier.

<pre>brew install https://raw.github.com/adamv/homebrew-alt/master/duplicates/vim.rb</pre>

As it turns out this failed the first time I ran it because I had an rvm installed Ruby on my path. I reset this to the system version and everything compiled fine.

<pre>rvm use system</pre>

Note also that it's really quite simple to use a different revision or different flags when compiling. Just download that file, modify it, serve it locally (say with a python one line web server) and point brew install at it. Next step, running off head for all the latest and greatest Vim features.

